Title: Team

----

Heading: Behind the Inverse Surveillance Project

----

Subheader: Team

----

Description:

The Inverse Surveillance Project team has assembled an interdisciplinary team of artists, community organizers, researchers, creative technologists, educators, and valued community members to design, produce, and co-create this project. 

The sensitivity, care, and specific cultural competency needed to create meaningful change, and facilitate true healing is of the utmost importance to us. We looked within our community for the brilliant mentors, creators and change-makers to help us bring this vision to light and formed a community advisory board. Our intergenerational, multi-ethnic and inter-disciplinary community advisory board is more robust and wonderful than these buzzwords can ever convey.

Our trusted consulting partners and subject-matter experts include, Dr. Kameelah Mu’min Rashad & the Muslim Wellness Foundation, Wafa Ghanim & Tatreez and Tea, Jumana Qawasmi & Watan.

We have received invaluable support from the MIT Open Documentary Lab and Co-Creation Studio, the University of Michigan Wallace House, Ford Foundation JustFilms, the Field Foundation, Pillars Fund, Sundance Institute Documentary Film Program and the Luminate Foundation.

----

Team:

- 
  person: Assia Boundaoui
  bio: |
    Assia Boundaoui is an Algerian-American filmmaker, writer and investigative journalist. Her debut short film about *hijabi* hair salons for the HBO Documentary Films the "LENNY" series premiered at the 2018 Sundance Film Festival. Her award-winning feature-length directorial debut, THE FEELING OF BEING WATCHED a documentary investigating a decade of FBI surveillance in Assia's Muslim-American community, had its world premiere at the 2018 Tribeca Film Festival, won the jury prize for Best Documentary at the Woodstock Film Festival and was nationally broadcast on PBS "POV" in 2019. Assia was named one of Filmmaker Magazine's "25 New Faces of Independent Film" and her work has been the recipient of support from the Ford Foundation JustFilms, International Documentary Association, San Francisco Film Society, Impact Partners and Firelight Media and FRONTLINE among others. Assia was a 2019 New America National Fellow and in 2020 was honored to be the recipient of the Livingston Award for national reporting.
    
    She is currently a Ford Foundation JustFilms fellow hosted at the MIT Open Documentary Lab Co-Creation Studio where she is iterating a co-created, AI fueled sequel to her film: the Inverse Surveillance Project. She has an M.A. in journalism from New York University and is an Algiers born, Arabic speaking Chicagoan currently based in Chicago,IL.
  link: ""
- 
  person: Yucef Merhi
  bio: |
    Yucef Merhi is an artist, coder, researcher, and curator, interested in raising cultural awareness through technology and language. Yucef has produced a wide body of works that engage poetry, hacking, facial recognition, AI, VR and retro video game platforms, towards the formulation of interactive experiences and environments. He is a pioneer of Digital Art, and is known for making the first work of art that included a video game console—the Atari 2600—back in 1985.
    
    Merhi holds a Master’s from NYU’s Interactive Telecommunications Program (ITP) and has taught Digital Art at numerous universities in the US, Venezuela and Ecuador. Over the past 25 years, he has been invited to lecture at ACM-MM, SIGGRAPH, New York University, The New School, Pratt Institute, Pace University, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, California Arts Institute, as well as several museums around the globe.
  link: http://yucef.com/
- 
  person: Shirin Anlen
  bio: >
    Shirin Anlen is an artist and creative
    technologist based in California and New
    York. Her artistic practice involves
    creative coding, interaction design,
    drawings, and data research that form
    the basis for real-life storytelling in
    emerging technologies — such as AR,
    VR, web platforms, and machine learning.
    shirin was an artist in residence at the
    National Film Board of Canada and a
    member at the NEW INC incubator together
    with Raycaster, an experience design
    studio she co-founded. She received the
    best digital story by the Biennial of
    Medial Arts of Chile; a research grant
    from the Knight Foundation, and an art
    commission from IDFA DocLab. She curated
    the VR program of DocAviv festival in
    the years 2016-2019, co-founded the
    first VR and interactive storytelling
    festival and lab in Israel, Steamer
    Salon and a member of Women+ Art AI
    collective. shirin holds an MFA in
    cinema and television from Tel Aviv
    University and is a research fellow at
    MIT Open Documentary Lab. Currently
    she’s exploring how alternative
    narratives can design new discourses
    around mental disability.
  link: https://shirin.works/
- 
  person: Nouha Boundaoui
  bio: "Nouha Boundaoui is a public health researcher and health justice and anti-surveillance advocate. As a graduate of Northwestern University and the Rollins School of Public Health, Nouha is dedicated to investigating the intersections of race and health and understanding how social determinants of health impact the health and freedoms of communities of color. As an advocate with All Options, a reproductive justice organization, and volunteer with Believer's Bail Out, a community led bail fund freeing Muslims from pre-trial & immigration incarceration, she believes deeply in building a world that prioritizes the health, healing, and liberation of all."
  link: ""
- 
  person: Katerina Cizek
  bio: 'Katerina Cizek is a two-time Emmy and Peabody-winning documentarian working with emergent technologies. She is the artistic director and co-founder of the (link: http://cocreationstudio.mit.edu/ text: Co-Creation Studio) at (link: http://opendoclab.mit.edu/ text: MIT Open Documentary Lab.) At the studio, she wrote (with Uricchio et al.) the world’s first field study on co-creating media called (link: https://wip.mitpress.mit.edu/collectivewisdom text: Collective Wisdom) (forthcoming with MIT Press in 2022). At the studio, she designs and facilitates co-creation workshops, research, delegations and fellowships fusing art, documentary and journalism together with emergent tech and science through the practice of collective creation. For over a decade, Cizek worked as a documentary director at the National Film Board of Canada, transforming the organization into a world-leading digital hub, with the projects (link: http://highrise.nfb.ca/ text: HIGHRISE) and (link: http://filmmakerinresidence.nfb.ca/ text: Filmmaker-in-Residence.) Both community-based and globally recognized, these two ground-breaking long-form digital projects garnered international awards and critical acclaim. Cizek’s earlier award-winning human rights documentary film projects instigated criminal investigations, changed UN policies, and screened as evidence at an International Criminal Tribunal. Cizek is a member of the Directors’ Guild of Canada, and serves as an advisor at the Sundance Institutes’ Interdisciplinary Lab and CPH:LAB, based in Copenhagen. She is a founding member of the Guild of Future Architects, a member of the editorial collective at (link: https://immerse.news/ text: IMMERSE), as well as a member of the Interactive Board of jurors for the Peabody Awards.'
  link: ""
- 
  person: Joy / Jade
  bio: >
    Joy / Jade is a designer and developer
    based in Los Angeles. She works with
    organizers, collectives, and projects
    invested in abolition, critical inquiry,
    art, and something more sustainable.
  link: https://joy-jade.com/

----

Llc: 

----

Film: 